You mention tech censorship as one of the things that has been most disturbing to you about the past year. For me, one of the most disturbing things has been to learn how many Christians I personally know from different parts of my life (including, I believe, people in our own church) who have given their support to Donald Trump. And before I go any further, obviously people are free to choose who they vote for and it's really no one else's business (I guess. Though I have some doubts about this. I feel like we just sort of let it sit there like an elephant in the room and perhaps it would have been better, for me at least, to have spoken up sooner about what was weighing on me about this election and its surrounding issues). And of course I realize that there is no human leader who will ever do it right. Our world and its people are fallen, corrupt, etc. etc. The phrase "total depravity" from my early Xenos classes comes to mind. But Trump ignored early warnings about the virus and even disbanded the pandemic team that had been previously put in place to deal with situations like the one we find ourselves in. He blatantly disregarded expert opinions. He pretty much refused to wear a mask and this led his followers to do the same. I basically hold him personally responsible for the fact that I haven't seen my family (or you guys!) in almost a year. But I digress.... Like I said, what I have found most disturbing is that so many Christians have given him their support. And this goes WAY beyond his handling of COVID-19. I am left feeling confused, angry, dumbfounded, incredulous, baffled, perhaps even betrayed?? that followers of Jesus could support a man who does exactly the opposite of anything I know to be true of Jesus. I am willing to hear explanations, although I don't know what I could hear that would change my mind on this. Not that changing anyone's mind has to be the goal. And again, I know we are all the opposite of Jesus, and any political leader is the opposite of Jesus, but to me, Trump is the opposite of Jesus and a danger to society and democracy as well.
There are many ways to respond to what you've said here, Lara.  Let me try to summarize what you've said and please correct this.  And this has to be the single most terrible birthday present, but... Happy Birthday!Disturbed by genuine Christians supporting Donald Trump.  Side point about the elephant in the room actually being discussed.High-level case for Trump being primarily responsible for the Covid-19 disaster.ignored early warningsdisbanded the pandemic teamrefused to wear a mask, leading his followers to do the sameis personally responsible for you not seeing your family in a yearConfusion and other stronger emotions regarding this question.  Given the above, how could followers of Jesus support this man?In this you see Trump as the opposite of anything you know to be true of Jesus.Trump is a danger to society and to democracy as well.In all of this, you are seeking to understand, won't likely change your mind, and are realistic about not changing others' minds.You assert the truth that we all fall short of the glory of God.  Romans 3:23 "for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God."  Lara, I'm going to give you my take on some of these in this reply.  I think it would be very healthy to have a zoom with you.  I don't share the same perspective as others who support Trump, so maybe we invite one other person from that point on the political spectrum as well as someone else (you pick) closer to your perspective???
Addressing your quick side point about the elephant in the room actually being discussed...I'm heavily in favor of these weighty topics--politics, taxes, household finances, big life decisions, jobs, parenting--getting more air time.
Why I voted, Why I voted for Trump in 2016, and Why I voted for Trump in 2020 by Ken Barker, 12/1-4/2020
On voting...
I read about economics and politics and history.  In this reading and in what I've observed, I've come to the conclusion that our two party system is in place primarily to keep the powers that be in power while giving the people a token activity to help them feel a sense of ownership in our governing.  The two parties have, loudly expressed and on the surface, really big differences.  In their actual governing, very little is different.  
Both parties champion an egregious foreign policy of American hegemony, continuing wars and starting wars for the benefit of crony corporations and their own continued rule over us all.  The many "color" revolutions of the last decade were intended to disrupt so that we can continue to influence, increase our influence, or take out a competitor.
Back at home, both parties champion increased government spending on social programs.  They may have large, excited arguments about how quickly these programs grow or who will directly benefit from the programs, but the programs grow.  The number of programs grow.  Both parties have go-to political topics with which they can excite their voting base.  The problems don't get solved.  For example, abortion is such a powerful political topic.  Republican politicians routinely use it as a major speaking point to rally the Christian vote.  Do they do much to stop abortion?  No.  The goal is to get re-elected, to stay close to the DC money and power structure.  I'm less familiar with the Democratic hot topics, but climate change may be a good example. 
Politicians care about the narrative that will get them elected and re-elected.  Some may go into their time with altruistic goals, but with the way the parties function these goals often go by the wayside.
I was much more deeply engaged politically in 2007.  Ron Paul was a surprise candidate for the Republican nomination and he was speaking truth to power.  His fund raising and polling numbers were astoundingly high.  The media doesn't want an outsider.  During this period, Ron Paul was running in second place and gaining.  The media would report the leader, Romney at that time, and then they would list the other candidates, 3rd through 5th.  Ron Paul might be mentioned deep into a newspaper article, but never above the fold.  Then the results in Iowa came out and were vastly different than the polling.  On the ground witnesses in Iowa attest to the Republican party powers essentially stealing the nomination from him through underhanded electioneering tactics.  
This was my first exposure to the political party process.  Both parties heavily prefer a candidate to come up slowly through the party and be fully and completely vetted as to the topics they'll discuss.  You simply cannot question the foreign policy of the United States, nor can you question the crony corporatism supported by the FED supported major banks.
Anyway, I don't recommend voting.  Especially in national elections.  It is participation in a farce, a stage show--and we are the audience-participants.  Certainly most others in our home church who participated in the 2020 election do not share my views.  
Why I voted for Trump in 2016
Given this abstention from voting, why would I vote in 2016?  We'll when there's a once in a lifetime chance to take an action that may expose the fraudulent system for what it is, I'm going to take that chance.  That was half of my motive for voting anyway.  The other half, the stronger half was to vote against Hillary Clinton.  Her campaign team colluded with the Democratic Party leadership to steal the nomination from Bernie Sanders.  I disagree with his policy positions.  It was tragic to see so much support for Bernie come to the predictable end.  The Democratic Party leadership just could not have him as their nominee and I would wager Hillary had favors to call in.  (See DNC email hacking.)
The Clinton family used some rather interesting political maneuvering back in the Arkansas days to move up the ladder and seize power.  I won't list them here and you would probably want proof, etc.  Given, at least, what I've read that is credible about all that Bill and Hillary and their crew did on their way to power, I couldn't pass up the chance to vote against her.  I would vote against her again.
So, combining this with the lack of viability of voting third party, I chose to vote for the political outsider, Donald Trump.  Others are concerned about his brashness, etc.  I've been more concerned about his close borders, American-exceptionalism than anything else.  I'm not fooled.  Maybe he's a believer, but he certainly didn't display that during his long career in the limelight of real estate and reality TV.  One thing I can say for him, he is who he is.  He's a rich, arrogant New Yorker.  I think he mostly ran for president because what-else-is-a-man-to-do.  His pride is certainly first.  I do think he genuinely wanted to fix some things in Washington, but never really had a plan, nor was he able to put a good team around him and let them be the experts they needed to be.  It didn't help that his presidency was under attack from within from his election on forward.  [sidebar:  Russians?  What do they really have to gain (or lose) by influencing our elections?  They didn't because they didn't need to.  Trump has been disgustingly belligerent, at least in speech, against Russia's interests in the Caucasus.]
I didn't think he would win.  When he won, I was hoping he would make some truly big changes.  Sadly he didn't or couldn't.  I didn't put much hope in him being successful.  One plus:  he initiated no new foreign wars.  That's a first for a modern presidency going back many, many decades.
Why I voted for Trump in 2020

You and I will likely disagree on much of this.  Trump's a blowhard and obnoxious.  And he isn't a politician.  Maybe he can't relate to the regular folks, but Pelosi, Harris, and Biden can't either.  I voted this time for Trump to see him have one more chance to make drastic and painful (to the ruling elite and the bureaucrats) changes in DC.  I voted for Trump because I can't stomach allowing the party who is excited to see us locked down, our cities burned in riots, and living in fear (not yours--thank you for correcting me).  Racism is real.  Real racism was on the decline until it became a political useful tool to divide us further.  Trump has plenty of support from non-whites, but that's not the narrative that has driven 2020.  Covid certainly seems like a real virus.  With any other president in office and certainly if this were not a presidential election year, I believe the Covid challenge would have been faced with reasoned approaches without draconian lockdowns instituted by Democratic governors and mayors along with Party Republican governors and mayors.  
When it came to this election, my main motivation was to give Trump one more chance to make the establishment squirm.  Secondarily, I actually believe regular people in the United States can make reasoned choices when not forced to by edict.  Biden and Harris have promised more of the same without the riots and looting.  They believe we cannot be trusted.  We are children, used for our labor and taxes, but we need to be protected--from ourselves.
Conclusion
This is likely too long for many people to read, but there it is from the heart.  My hope, politically, is for Christ's return.  I believe the body of Christ needs to rise above social justice on the left and abortion on the right and be tangibly different from both political parties.  I believe electoral politics is a systemic way for the establishment elite to convince us that we actually have a say in our national governing.
Lara, I'd be happy to discuss further and I really do appreciate your willingness to respond and open up a channel of communication.  I would really enjoy learning how you came to support Biden/Harris.  Again, I'd be excited to hop on a zoom call.  I suspect that others in the body of Christ voted for Trump for vastly different reasons than I.
Yours in Christ.
Ken4 Nov 2020


On Mon, Nov 30, 2020 at 1:38 PM Ken Barker <ken.barker@gmail.com> wrote:
Lara,
First and foremost, I am very, very thankful that we are together in the body of Christ.  Much of what you say in your note actually mirrors what goes on in my thinking:  seeking after truth, fearing to speak up and doing so anyway, a desire to be united even through disagreements on sensitive topics.  I commend you and thank you deeply for being willing to write this note and share your thoughts (and heart) with me.  
Below, are some responses interspersed with what you wrote.
I don't really know where to start regarding this and other recent e-mails/blog posts. I have so many thoughts, most of which feel pretty jumbled, but I know that my attempts to "let things go" have turned into more of "let things fester" and I do not want the devil to drive any wedges between me and my brothers and sisters in Christ, which I feel he is well on his way to doing if I don't get some things into the light. I do plan to discuss my thoughts at our study group as well, so I can talk things out and interact. This way, I can express myself but have any wrong thoughts corrected and things that I might be making up in my head can be put to rest.
Lara, as I mentioned above, this is big.  Thank you for taking this step and for also desiring to share with your study group.  The devil really does desire to divide and also to oppress.  I've probably contributed to that, sadly.  However, I'm encouraged that you are bringing this out into the light (not in a sin sense, but in the sense that God's light can shine into these thought areas and provide relief and comfort.)  Psalm 18:28 "You, LORD, keep my lamp burning; my God turns my darkness into light."
Based on some of the things you've posted, I think that I probably fundamentally disagree with you on many of them; however, as you point out, we don't have to agree. Luckily, we do agree on our position in Christ, our bond in the Spirit, the word of God, and our eternal citizenship. One could argue that nothing else really matters. 
Amen.  It seems that the hot topics are so very vital because of the strength and repetition with which they are shared.  I bet most of us (certainly within the body) agree on more areas than we disagree and that these areas of agreement are also more important.  Sadly, social media is not a platform for discussing broad topics with nuance in a desire to know the other person better.  
I think we agree on some other things, too. I'm a librarian and our national organization (the American Library Association) literally publishes the Intellectual Freedom Manual. You can't be in my profession without being highly sensitized to issues surrounding censorship and people's right to information. Of course, I'm also highly sensitized to the spread of misinformation and the need for people to get accurate information. I believe we may disagree on what the accurate information is in regard to COVID-19, etc., but agree that everyone has a right to decide for themselves based on all available information. Should tech giants be allowed to take down videos that contain potentially inaccurate or controversial information? Even though I have vehemently disagreed with the very videos that were taken down, I still feel like the answer is no, they should not be taken down. To draw on my library experience again, we collect materials on all viewpoints, whether we personally agree with them or not; however, I have no issue with social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook flagging certain posts as "Disputed." That way, the information is still there, but people can see that it is contested.

We are in hearty agreement here.  If I could wave a wand and grant a majority of people a deeper desire to dig into the underlying information (on any topic) I would.  
You say, "[we] agree that everyone has a right to decide for themselves".  There is nuance here.  Given the censorship that we both abhor actually happening (and happening predominantly against one narrative), I would argue that the intent is precisely to decide for us.  In my opinion, the lockdown and business closures enacted by many governors and mayors has materially taken this right to decide away from people.
Beyond these issues of 2020, my number one concern is what comes next.  If we aren't allowed access to raw information regarding certain political views on the virus, its treatment, etc, when will we be no longer allowed to decide for ourselves regarding matters of faith?  The further our society goes down the road of 2020 the more likely that real moral issues addressed in the bible will be topics which cannot be discussed. In your previous e-mail that linked to your blog, you mentioned watching the local news and the fear mongering, sensationalized nature of it. I don't disagree with you there either. Local and mainstream media is probably closer to entertainment-based viewing than anyone wants to think about. They need to sell advertising, and in order to do that, they have to get people to watch. "If it bleeds, it leads" and all that. I also don't think, though, that just because it's mainstream, it's wrong information. I also take issue with various things I see (including your blog post) that make it sound like if you follow guidelines from the government surrounding COVID-19, you are somehow living your life in fear or are a victim of a conspiracy theory or government overreach. For me, it has nothing to do with fear (or very little to do with fear. I certainly don't want to get the virus or its lingering effects and I don't want anyone I know to get it or its lingering effects). It has to do with a sense of responsibility and doing the right thing. My bit of scrap metal towards the war effort, so to speak. Unfortunately, what is simply a public health issue has become a political issue. And for that--I'm just going to say it--I blame our president, which leads me to my next thought.
Thank you for reading my blog post.  I feel an urge to share and wonder if anyone cares to read and agree or disagree, so thank you.
Thank you also for sharing your motivation for taking the actions you've taken in 2020.  "It has to do with a sense of responsibility and doing the right thing."  As I'm reading this, I'm in disbelief at my own narrow perspective on those who have chosen differently from me.  I admit that I've wrongly assumed fear as the primary motive.  It probably is a motive in some people, but clearly not all people.
Regarding the public health issue and blaming the president, at this point we definitely diverge.  I do blame Trump for his handling this issue, but I blame him for not taking action that promotes more freedom and responsibility on the people themselves.  Much of the response was at the state and local level, but his leadership could have changed some of their responses.  Delving further into this here might not make much sense.  Perhaps face-to-face (via zoom) would be a better venue, though much of the water is under the bridge so to speak.  
You mention tech censorship as one of the things that has been most disturbing to you about the past year. For me, one of the most disturbing things has been to learn how many Christians I personally know from different parts of my life (including, I believe, people in our own church) who have given their support to Donald Trump. And before I go any further, obviously people are free to choose who they vote for and it's really no one else's business (I guess. Though I have some doubts about this. I feel like we just sort of let it sit there like an elephant in the room and perhaps it would have been better, for me at least, to have spoken up sooner about what was weighing on me about this election and its surrounding issues). And of course I realize that there is no human leader who will ever do it right. Our world and its people are fallen, corrupt, etc. etc. The phrase "total depravity" from my early Xenos classes comes to mind. But Trump ignored early warnings about the virus and even disbanded the pandemic team that had been previously put in place to deal with situations like the one we find ourselves in. He blatantly disregarded expert opinions. He pretty much refused to wear a mask and this led his followers to do the same. I basically hold him personally responsible for the fact that I haven't seen my family (or you guys!) in almost a year. But I digress.... Like I said, what I have found most disturbing is that so many Christians have given him their support. And this goes WAY beyond his handling of COVID-19. I am left feeling confused, angry, dumbfounded, incredulous, baffled, perhaps even betrayed?? that followers of Jesus could support a man who does exactly the opposite of anything I know to be true of Jesus. I am willing to hear explanations, although I don't know what I could hear that would change my mind on this. Not that changing anyone's mind has to be the goal. And again, I know we are all the opposite of Jesus, and any political leader is the opposite of Jesus, but to me, Trump is the opposite of Jesus and a danger to society and democracy as well.
Lara, there is a lot here.  I'm going to take some more time to respond in a follow-up email dedicated to this paragraph.  Hopefully I can provide some perspective or at least help dispel a mystery.  (I suspect you are not alone and there are others who wonder the same about their brothers and sisters who support the other candidate.)
Well, these are some of the thoughts that have been swirling in my head. If it would be helpful to talk zoom face to zoom face :) , I'm open to that. I feel like I threw a lot of things out there and I don't mean to stir things up or so blatantly announce my current political views. I mostly felt that I needed to not be silent anymore about what was weighing on me and, by bringing things into the light, to keep the devil from sowing seeds of discord.
 In praise of Christ, the only true king, for his love and forgiveness and for his promise of a world made perfect some day.
Again, thank you for this opportunity to engage in discussion.  It is challenging to preserve the unity of the body, but surely opening up avenues for conversation (and face-to-face via zoom) is very healthy in my opinion.
Please know that I will respond soonish on the one paragraph about Trump support. 
Yours in Christ.
Ken
On Sat, Nov 28, 2020 at 1:46 PM Lara Phelps <lnoelphelps@yahoo.com> wrote:
 Ken,
I don't really know where to start regarding this and other recent e-mails/blog posts. I have so many thoughts, most of which feel pretty jumbled, but I know that my attempts to "let things go" have turned into more of "let things fester" and I do not want the devil to drive any wedges between me and my brothers and sisters in Christ, which I feel he is well on his way to doing if I don't get some things into the light. I do plan to discuss my thoughts at our study group as well, so I can talk things out and interact. This way, I can express myself but have any wrong thoughts corrected and things that I might be making up in my head can be put to rest.
Based on some of the things you've posted, I think that I probably fundamentally disagree with you on many of them; however, as you point out, we don't have to agree. Luckily, we do agree on our position in Christ, our bond in the Spirit, the word of God, and our eternal citizenship. One could argue that nothing else really matters. 
I think we agree on some other things, too. I'm a librarian and our national organization (the American Library Association) literally publishes the Intellectual Freedom Manual. You can't be in my profession without being highly sensitized to issues surrounding censorship and people's right to information. Of course, I'm also highly sensitized to the spread of misinformation and the need for people to get accurate information. I believe we may disagree on what the accurate information is in regard to COVID-19, etc., but agree that everyone has a right to decide for themselves based on all available information. Should tech giants be allowed to take down videos that contain potentially inaccurate or controversial information? Even though I have vehemently disagreed with the very videos that were taken down, I still feel like the answer is no, they should not be taken down. To draw on my library experience again, we collect materials on all viewpoints, whether we personally agree with them or not; however, I have no issue with social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook flagging certain posts as "Disputed." That way, the information is still there, but people can see that it is contested.
In your previous e-mail that linked to your blog, you mentioned watching the local news and the fear mongering, sensationalized nature of it. I don't disagree with you there either. Local and mainstream media is probably closer to entertainment-based viewing than anyone wants to think about. They need to sell advertising, and in order to do that, they have to get people to watch. "If it bleeds, it leads" and all that. I also don't think, though, that just because it's mainstream, it's wrong information. I also take issue with various things I see (including your blog post) that make it sound like if you follow guidelines from the government surrounding COVID-19, you are somehow living your life in fear or are a victim of a conspiracy theory or government overreach. For me, it has nothing to do with fear (or very little to do with fear. I certainly don't want to get the virus or its lingering effects and I don't want anyone I know to get it or its lingering effects). It has to do with a sense of responsibility and doing the right thing. My bit of scrap metal towards the war effort, so to speak. Unfortunately, what is simply a public health issue has become a political issue. And for that--I'm just going to say it--I blame our president, which leads me to my next thought.
You mention tech censorship as one of the things that has been most disturbing to you about the past year. For me, one of the most disturbing things has been to learn how many Christians I personally know from different parts of my life (including, I believe, people in our own church) who have given their support to Donald Trump. And before I go any further, obviously people are free to choose who they vote for and it's really no one else's business (I guess. Though I have some doubts about this. I feel like we just sort of let it sit there like an elephant in the room and perhaps it would have been better, for me at least, to have spoken up sooner about what was weighing on me about this election and its surrounding issues). And of course I realize that there is no human leader who will ever do it right. Our world and its people are fallen, corrupt, etc. etc. The phrase "total depravity" from my early Xenos classes comes to mind. But Trump ignored early warnings about the virus and even disbanded the pandemic team that had been previously put in place to deal with situations like the one we find ourselves in. He blatantly disregarded expert opinions. He pretty much refused to wear a mask and this led his followers to do the same. I basically hold him personally responsible for the fact that I haven't seen my family (or you guys!) in almost a year. But I digress.... Like I said, what I have found most disturbing is that so many Christians have given him their support. And this goes WAY beyond his handling of COVID-19. I am left feeling confused, angry, dumbfounded, incredulous, baffled, perhaps even betrayed?? that followers of Jesus could support a man who does exactly the opposite of anything I know to be true of Jesus. I am willing to hear explanations, although I don't know what I could hear that would change my mind on this. Not that changing anyone's mind has to be the goal. And again, I know we are all the opposite of Jesus, and any political leader is the opposite of Jesus, but to me, Trump is the opposite of Jesus and a danger to society and democracy as well.
Well, these are some of the thoughts that have been swirling in my head. If it would be helpful to talk zoom face to zoom face :) , I'm open to that. I feel like I threw a lot of things out there and I don't mean to stir things up or so blatantly announce my current political views. I mostly felt that I needed to not be silent anymore about what was weighing on me and, by bringing things into the light, to keep the devil from sowing seeds of discord.
In praise of Christ, the only true king, for his love and forgiveness and for his promise of a world made perfect some day.
Lara
 On Thursday, November 26, 2020, 11:50:10 AM EST, Ken Barker <ken.barker@gmail.com> wrote: 
 
 May we all be deeply grateful to our Father in heaven for his love and his rescue and the soon-ish return of His Son.   I’m deeply grateful that our fellowship holds firm to a deep valuing of the truths in the Word and living those out in close fellowship — with brothers and sisters in love relationships.  Without him, his word, and you my fellow brothers and sisters, 2020 would have been even more desperate and challenging.   Thank you all for standing firm in your faith in Jesus!
We’ve seen some truly unprecedented things occur this year.  Societal and political “foundations” have been rocked.  I suspect that this trend will continue.
For me, the most disturbing of occurrences in 2020 has been the quick acceptance that certain information and views are completely unacceptable and cannot even be given any room for discourse or debate.   Tech censorship went from a mildly interesting don’t-think-it’ll-happen occurrence to a wow-I-can’t-believe-this-has-become-so-blatant  occurrence.
Imagine if the tech Giants decide that our biblical worldview is no longer acceptable.
Here’s a recent example of censorship. A 20 minute video is yanked from YouTube after it receives 1.5 million likes.  Not everyone agrees with the information provided in the video, but are we at a level where we have to have everyone agreeing to stated narrative?  
See for yourself.  https://www.bitchute.com/video/mcm8Sc8f66o/
It is easy for me to imagine that basic attacks on thinking and reasoning and access to information will also become attacks on the truths that we know in our Word.
Regardless, satan‘s world system has been more revealed. We know the end of the story. The Lord returns! The Lord prevails!
I’m thankful that I know each of you.  I’m thankful that I know some of you well and that I may have the opportunity to know some of you more deeply. I must thankful that we are united in Christ!
Ken-- 
Ken Barker
614.403.7044-- 
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "shokuh" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to shokuh+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
 

-- 
Ken Barker
614.403.7044

-- 
Ken Barker
614.403.7044
